# Analysis of FCS-based two-colour coincident detection (TCCD) of aggregated species.

General purpose repository for the analysis of one- or two-colour fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS) data, generated by Dr. Nicholas Marzano from data generated by Mr. Joshua Trowbridge. This repository was designed to identify large oligomeric species of either TDP-43 low-complexity-domain alone or associated with molecular chaperones (e.g., Hsp27 or alphaB-crystallin) - in the event that oligomeric species are identified in either channel (i.e., TDP channel or chaperone channel), the presence of a peak in the opposite channel was investigated to identify if there was a coincident peak (i.e., a proxy for the true colocalisation of TDP and chaperone). While this code was written for a specific purpose, it should be generally applicable for any system in which there are peaks in two channels that need to be identified for coincidence.

Generally, the code peforms several functions as outlined below:
    - Imports raw FCS count data (example data provided in raw_data) and cleans it for further processing. Depending on your data structure, this may need to be modified.
    - Fits data to a gaussian to identify background signal and uses this to identify a non-biased data-based peak threshold.
    - Fits data to identify peaks (for both channels if present). Fitting is also visualized to confirm appropiate thresholding.
    - Determines if peaks are coincident with opposite channel (for two-channel data only). This data is also visualized to confirmed correct coincident peak detection.
    - Collates data from multiple repeats for data visualization. 

# General usage notes

Here, the scripts are seperated into those used for processing of individual experiments (A1) and for plotting collated data from many experimental repeats (A2). Scripts should be run in order (A1-A2); however, for A2 the current script layout expects data from multiple experiments that have been analysed by A1. Note that if you wish to run these scripts without multiple repeats, the lines referring to additional repeats can be just commented out and adjusted accordingly as needed.

Note for A2_plot_collated_data.py - the plot_map dictionary is crucial for ensuring that data is organized correctly. Essentially, data is organized on a channel basis up until this point (i.e., the protein is in channel 1 or 2); however, there is no information within the raw data that denotes which protein this refers to. As such, the plot_map dictionary is used to identify which channel refers to what protein (i.e., client or chaperone) in each treatment. Please ensure this is filled out correctly (instructions are provided in A2-scripts).

# Data source/file requirements

The expected layout of the data for each treatment is provided in the example data provided in 'raw_data'. Both an example of a single channel or dual-channel experiment are provided, where each biological replicate is invcluded as sequential columns. Any deviation from this layout will cause the import and cleanup scripts to fail. 